Please find attached with this email my statement of purpose for RIT, from where you might have received an email to fill out my recommendation. It would be great if you could vouch for my grades and indicate if possible that they do not do justice to my skills. It would be really helpful for my application.
Please find my response here:-
Extraordinary skills in programming are not a necessity as long as you can show that you would be able to learn the requisite skills while working on the project. The major criteria for selection is how interested you are in this area of research and mere enthusiasm isn't enough. You need to go through the website properly and talk about which particular topics are of interest to you and why. Depending upon your responses a decision will be made.
My name is Rohan Pattnaik, I am a final-year undergraduate student in the Department of Computer Science at IIIT Bhubaneswar, India. I am writing you this email to seek any internship opportunities available under your guidance at Caltech.
As you might know, upcoming surveys like the LSST or the SKA are predicted to generate massive quantities of data, making data-driven astronomy an absolute necessity in the near future. As an undergraduate, I try to understand how machine learning can be used to address many of the challenges involved in the handling and analysis of such vast quantities of data in astronomy. I have prior research experience in the same through my internships at the Center of Astronomy, IIT Indore, India. My most recent project involved using artificial neural networks to characterize and remove foreground from the redshifted 21cm reionization signal. Please find other relevant details regarding my academics here in my CV
During my final semester, I am allowed to do an internship at another institute, the work of which can be presented as my Bachelor's thesis upon my return. I would love the opportunity to take up a project under your guidance at Caltech for the same. I went through your website and sincerely believe that there is a lot I can learn from working under your supervision since my research interests are in alignment with yours. I can work for any number of weeks you deem appropriate between January to April 2018. I just need to come back to my college in May 2018 to give the final presentation. I already have a valid US visitor visa(B1/B2) which allows me to stay in the country for upto 90 days. I am also applying to the astronomy graduate program at Caltech for Fall 2018 and would like to work with your group if I am given the opportunity. This internship would be an enriching experience for me that can help ease the transition to a graduate education in Astronomy in the near future. I look forward to discussing this further with you!
As I had informed you earlier, I would be visiting the University of Washington for a week at the end of this month. I will be there for Astrohackweek-2017 which takes place from 28th August to 1st September 2017. You had asked me to remind you to put me in touch with Professor Miguel Morales who I am supposed to meet. 
I will reach Seattle on 26th evening and leave on 3rd evening. I am also free after 6 in the evening on all other days except 30th August, Wednesday. Since this happens to be a summer school + hack-week on machine learning for astronomy, I plan on making the most out of it for gathering ideas for my final year project. 
Apart from that I gave my GRE on 4th of this month and have got my scores back. I was hoping to discuss the prospects of my future plans with you whenever you have the time. Please let me know if you see any way possible that we could talk regarding the same and also about meeting Prof. Morales. Looking forward to your reply!
Just wanted to inform you that I have reached UW and leave on 4th afternoon. We had a reception by the local astronomy community yesterday but I don't think professor Morales was there. Although I met a lot of other people working on different problems in astronomy ranging from exoplanets to cosmology interested in using Machine Learning for their research. I am gaining really valuable insights about what might and might not be correct approaches to our problems. Look forward to hear from you!
It has been really great having someone like you whom I can reach out to for regular advice. Your mentorship has helped me to make informed choices so far. I was hoping to get another opportunity to meet you and discuss a few doubts that I have regarding some career decisions. I believe I would be more comfortable if we could do this at silver springs as there would be least interruptions here. It shouldn't take more than 15-20 minutes of your time. Please let me know if this is feasible at your convenience. 
Thank you so much for your generous response. I am delighted to receive your offer. Regarding the funding, I can try and arrange for the cost of tickets to and from Barcelona on my own, if the rest of the expenses like boarding, lodging, and assistance with the visa could be covered from your side. Please let me know regarding the same at your earliest convenience.
I exchanged a few emails with Ms. Forrest and looks like I won't be able to make it this time. It has already been a little late and also I don't have the financial capability to fund my complete trip to Barcelona. I would however like to sincerely thank you for your kind consideration. It has been really encouraging to see your interest in me and I hope to apply to you in the future with better qualifications possibly for a PhD.
“Emotional commitment is a key to achieving mastery”. These words have had a deep impact in my life. Pursuing an undergraduate degree in computer science from the International Institute of Information Technology-Bhubaneswar, a premier school for computer science education in India, I was looking for a field where I could really value applying my skills. I had been fascinated with Astronomy since my school days and had always wanted to contribute to the field. I see astronomy as the logical outgrowth of our species’ inherent curiosity, dealing with problems at the very edge of human understanding. Being able to contribute towards this field would mean pushing that edge a little further and this idea was enough to get me thinking about pursuing a career in research in astronomy.
With that thought in my mind, I decided that I needed to build a solid foundation in mathematics and physics before pursuing research in astronomy. Mathematics was something that I had a good hold on since my high school days and hence my performance in all mathematics courses during college was consistently good. However, I had scored an average grade in my introductory physics course during the first semester and therefore I decided to approach Dr. Biswajit Pradhan for advice who was a professor in the Physics department and was taking my Physics of Semiconductor Devices course at that time. I shared my vision of working in astronomy with him and he encouraged me to put in extra efforts in this course as it had a fair bit of advanced physical concepts like quantum mechanics that were among the basic requirements for astronomy. I decided to work on a project in this area simultaneously as it would help to deepen my understanding of the subject. I found a program in Fortran to do Monte Carlo simulations for electron dynamics in semiconductor devices and implemented the same in python. Even though it was a pretty basic project it really strengthened my understanding of the underlying concepts and I went on to score a grade-point of 9.84 out of 10 in the Physics of Semiconductor Devices course.
Having gotten the confidence that I needed, I began looking for opportunities in astronomy that might require some programming skills and managed to find an internship in the group of Dr. Abhirup Datta at the Center of Astronomy in the Indian Institute of Technology-Indore. Here, I worked on developing programs in python for the analysis of TEC(Total Electron Content) data obtained from GPS satellites through a newly installed GNSS receiver at the institute. Working on this project opened up my mind in ways I had never imagined. I started exploring various computational challenges in astrophysics and came across the field of astroinformatics. Dubbed as the “Fourth Paradigm of astronomical research”, this area used advanced concepts from the fields of machine learning and statistics to develop new data-intensive ideas for astronomy. This seemed as the perfect field to pursue further research in as it required implementation of state-of-the-art data science techniques for effective astronomical research.
Therefore, after gaining sufficient knowledge in machine learning through courses both at the university and online, I rejoined Dr. Datta’s group again during the winter and summer breaks of my third-year to work on designing Artificial Neural Networks for foreground characterization in redshifted 21cm reionization signal. While working on this project we were able to get satisfactory results that are currently in the process of being generalized for publication. This project got me excited about the future possibilities in the area of astroinformatics and to gain further insight, I visited the University of Washington-Seattle in the end of August-2017 for the Astro Hack Week, a week long summer school that brought together approximately sixty astronomers and researchers from around the world to learn together and collaborate on projects at the intersection of statistics, machine learning, computation, and astronomy. It was a great experience where I got to interact and collaborate with such a diverse group of people who were all looking to contribute towards this field.
Along with gaining insights on research in astroinformatics, I have worked on a diverse range of projects during my B.Tech such as NLP and Computer Vision to name a few. During this I co-authored a review paper on deep learning for computer vision tasks that was accepted in the recently concluded 2017 International Conference on Intelligent Computing and Control, and is currently in the process of getting published. I also took part in the Smart India Hackathon-2017 where we worked on a video compression algorithm for satellite telemetry for the Ministry of Earth Sciences, Govt. of India. We developed an efficient platform using the concept of distributed video coding that garnered a lot of appreciation for its possible applications for cyclone monitoring and was eventually awarded the first prize. All these experiences helped in enhancing my versatility as a computer science student.
My major reason for applying to Caltech’s graduate program in astronomy isn’t just because of its high rankings. For me what truly sets Caltech apart is the fact that it is one of the very few institutes around the world that chooses to recognize astroinformatics as a stand-alone research discipline by providing a complete area of specialization in data-intensive astronomy in its astronomy graduate program. With upcoming surveys like the LSST and the SKA promising to produce data in prodigious quantities, there is going to be a more than ever need for astronomers who are skilled data scientists. I believe my undergraduate training in computer science coupled with a robust graduate education in astronomy from Caltech would enable me to be a part of the next generation of astronomers who are ready to tackle the challenges presented by such vast quantities of data for effective astronomical research. One sub-field of astronomy that I would really like to work in is exoplanetary research. I am particularly interested in Dr. Dimitri Mawet’s group that is currently working on advancing high contrast imaging and spectroscopy techniques. I feel that my experience from projects in computer vision and machine learning could allow me to make valuable contributions to the group in preparing for future exoplanet imaging for a range of ground and space-based telescopes. After completion of my Ph.D. I would like to pursue my ultimate passion of teaching astronomy by joining as a professor in an institute of higher education. Belonging to a family of educators, teaching is something that holds a position utmost importance in my life. The thought of being able to promulgate the knowledge I would have amassed over the years to young eager minds gives me a satisfaction like none other. I believe that it is a person’s responsibility as a teacher to be able to present even the mundane in a manner that captivates the audience. That is why I also aim to improve my teaching skills while assisting professors as a TA during my graduate studies. After all as Albert Einstein very accurately said -- “It is the supreme art of the teacher to awaken joy in creative expression and knowledge”. I hope I can get the opportunity to continue my journey in astronomy by becoming a graduate student at Caltech.  
With upcoming surveys like the LSST and the SKA promising to produce and missions like Gaia already producing data in prodigious quantities, there is going to be a more than ever need for astronomers who are skilled data scientists. Rochester Institute of Technology happens to be one of the very few universities around the world that recognizes this by providing a specialization track in astroinformatics in its graduate curriculum. Doing a PhD from RIT in Astrophysical Science and Technology with a concentration in astroinformatics will allow me to employ advanced data mining and data analysis strategies to conduct pioneering research in various sub-disciplines of astronomy. After completion of my graduate studies, I plan to pursue my ultimate passion of teaching by joining as a professor in an institute of higher education. The thought of being able to promulgate the knowledge I would have amassed by that time to young eager minds gives me a satisfaction like none other. I believe that it is a person’s responsibility as a teacher to be able to present even the mundane in a manner that captivates the audience. That is why I also aim to improve my teaching skills by assisting professors in taking classes during my graduate studies. World-class faculty and a program that has a welcoming environment for non-astronomy majors makes RIT the ideal institute for someone like me. 
Sorry for the delay. I had my university exams. I took a look at your website and I must say it looks quite promising to me. Although I am not an avid open source contributor, I feel your website can give me vital feedbacks which might bring a change to that. My suggestions for improving your website would be:-
You could include a sort of progress bar for the XP and Level, indicating how much more XP is required to go to the next level.
I feel you can improve the overall look and feel of the website.
Apart from that if you need some suggestions from a technical point of view, I would refer you to approach Shourya Pratap Singh(shourya4@gmail.com) for his feedback. He has a robust knowledge on web developement and can definitely give you some valuable feedback. 
Thanks a lot and it's really great to hear from you after all this time. I hope you are doing fine and would love to catch up with you sometime, if possible.
Regarding the video compression algorithm, we were inspired by the architecture of Distributed Video Coding which basically splits the video into frames and transmits only a limited number of those. The idea is to have a decoder which receives these limited frames and is able to generate the remaining frames using a side information block that employs frame interpolation techniques. We just used a few novel methods for the same to enhance our compression. We are planning to formally publish our findings at the earliest. 
I am writing this email to inquire about the successful submission of the letter of reference regarding my English proficiency for the Lunar Planetary Institute Summer Intern Program. As the last dates for the submission are approaching near, I would like to request you to submit the required letter at your earliest convenience, if you haven't done so already. If you have already submitted please let me know as it is still showing the letter has not been received in the link provided to me.
Just wanted to remind you about the letter of reference regarding my English proficiency for Lunar Planetary Institute Summer Intern Program 2017. The last date for receiving the letters is around December end and January starting. I would humbly like to request you to submit the required letter at your earliest convenience. 
The product looks awesome. Kudos for the effort. It's just that sometimes it's the state of the buyer rather than the product which happens to be the problem. If we take my case, I am an undergraduate student from a remote college in India. I am just starting to find my way into deep learning. Given my financial condition, a book worth $47(about 3000 INR) is quite costly here from a student's perspective. So the chances of my buying the book decreases, as my first option would be to search the internet for the solution of my problem. However I would really like to have a structured book at my disposal which might help me with most of these tasks and strengthen my concepts. 
So for it to be a no-brainer, I would suggest pricing it at somewhere around $8 USD(around 500 INR) for students belonging to Indian subcontinent.
Congratulations to you on writing such a complete book.
The fabric of society is astonishing yet simple. It has its set of beliefs and laws which must be followed for its proper regulation. But many of these beliefs and laws seem to defy logic and common sense. The purpose with which they were made seem to have faded away through the passage of time. And given all the ridiculous stuff happening out there today in the name of age-old culture and religious beliefs, it is important that we rediscover these foundations so that we may be able to understand their true purpose before blindly following them.
Indians have always been proud of their culture and traditions. Every other person in India is embedded with a certain pride in their hearts on being an Indian. And why shouldn’t they be proud? Our culture is one of the most ancient and greatest cultures to have ever existed. But we somewhat seem to have forgotten or misplaced the ideals which made it great. We tend to compare our religion with others by saying that ours is better than theirs. And what we have they can never have. I believe this is the point where all hell breaks loose. India in its 10,000-year history never invaded any country. There is a reason why. Take any person or civilization which has and you will find one thing stands common. They all thought that their culture is better than others’ and the only way of making others’ better was by vigorous expansion. The sages who once put the foundations of our culture were enlightened beings. They had understood that life is simple yet its specific principles are infinitely complex. They understood that a proper balance of logic and emotions was needed to guide our lives in the right direction. And that humanity as a whole was bigger than all the humans and their array of beliefs.
We used to be a civilization of philosophers and logical thinkers. Science and education used to occupy one of the most important places in our culture. In fact, India has made a lot of important scientific discoveries like the zero, trigonometry, decimal system, Ayurveda, the time taken by earth to move around the sun and much more. Such was the advancement in science those days that it is said ancient Indian sages were aware of the theory of relativity. It is said that the emperor Asoka created a council of 9 unknown men who were custodians of 9 textbooks which were about some of the biggest scientific subjects like cosmogony, aerospace technology, alchemy, terrestrial and extra-terrestrial communication(Yes the ancients were supposedly aware of the existence of aliens!!!). These were kept hidden from the world as Asoka feared that they might be misused in the wrong hands for waging war. Among all these books one which caught my eye was on the subject Anti-Gravity. Yup, you read it correctly. The book describes the science behind it. According to it the one thing, which is the reason for all the meaningless feud everywhere, that is, ego, is also the thing that holds you down. It was written that any person who has stripped down all of his egos can levitate up to a certain point. I know this sounds preposterous but I believe that we are misinterpreting the idea behind the text. What it means really is that if we get rid of our egos we move up one level. We move to the level of logic and righteousness. The level without the constraints of man or woman, rich or poor, white or black. The level where the only thing to know is what makes us human and the only question to ask is why are we here. The level of the truth of life. This is what we should try to achieve. This is where our paths should lead. This essence of living is what we need to rediscover.
I am applying to your Summer@EPFL program at the School of Computer and Communication Sciences for summer 2017. I strive to gain valuable experience as an intern that might assist me for my master’s in computational sciences in the future, leading to a career in research. Computers have been the center of my fascination since I was a kid. Hence the decision to take computer science as my major during my bachelor’s degree. From understanding what computers can do, to learning about their limits, my questions might have matured over time but my veneration only continues to increase with each bit I understand. While learning about its various fields, the role computer science played in other domains like astrophysics, intrigued me the most. I started with a few projects on data analysis in this domain
that helped me in understanding the usage of analytical tools. That is where I came across the concepts of machine learning, data mining and computer vision, and have been in their captivation ever since. I have looked to apply and learn about these concepts as much as I can on my own. A detailed description of my technical skills can be found in my CV, but I would like to emphasize that my greatest strength remains my ability and zest to learn anything new.
I realize you must receive many applications from excellent students hailing from the top most colleges of the world. I hail from a rather remote college in India where opportunities are not as abundant as these colleges, but with whatever limited resources we have at our disposal we keep
our passion for the subject pure. If I am given an opportunity to come and learn in one the best institutes in the world, it would
be monumental in solidifying the direction I have given my life. I ensure you complete dedication during my time there as it is my hunger for learning that fuels my perseverance.
As per instructions, I have spent the past few days learning about various methods of Inference, most notably the Metropolis Algorithm and Gibbs Sampling along with other Monte Carlo techniques. I found an online course consisting of video lectures by Professor David Mackay on Information theory, Inference and Pattern Recognition (with the same name as his book). I sifted through them learning about a range of concepts starting from Shannon’s source coding theorem to Bayesian Inference, leading up-to the various Monte Carlo methods. I have started understanding the under lying concepts of these methods and am constantly learning more and more about them in order to make substantial progress towards grasping them rigidly.
I was also, going through your paper on BAYESIAN ANGULAR POWER SPECTRUM ANALYSIS OF INTERFEROMETRIC DATA, to try and get the idea of the kind of work that might be required ahead. However, I must say I am still quite far from making complete sense of it. I feel it would be really helpful if you could help me understand it better by possibly giving a short explanation of the paper.
Finally, I would like to assert that I feel confident enough to start tackling further application problems based on these methods. I realize that I currently don’t really have an in-depth understanding of these concepts, but I am looking to build it simultaneously while working on a problem. That has always been an effective method of learning for me. I hope it doesn’t sound too gilded.
The aim of our project is to extract valuable subset of data from the data received from the GNSS satellites by the PoLaR-xS GNSS dual-frequency receiver located at IIT Indore, Simrol Campus, and use it to analyse the TEC(Total electron content) in the Ionosphere. We have plotted the Total electron content with time and noticed the diurnal trend and other quintessential elements which can be analysed with the TEC data in the equatorial anomaly crest, namely Indore.